DOCUMENTATION FOR ALERTBOT:

1) Setup
	Thou have decided to set up AlertBot. This is very good.
	1) Make sure the system that the bot runs on has the following:
		- Either apache or lighttpd
		- The user that runs the bot, and webserver account: Write access to /tmp
		- PHP5
		- Unix "nohup", and a shell that supports command forking by & (bash)
		- PEAR and PEAR classes: Net_SmartIRC, Net_SMTP
	2) Get an account at bulksms.co.uk
	3) Copy the "irc" folder somewhere where it can NOT be reached by internet,
		e.g. /home/myuser/irc
	4) Copy the "web" folder somewhere where the httpd can access it.
	5) In "irc" folder: Create "config.inc.php" based on "config.tpl.php"
	6) Run "nohup alertbot.php &" in the "irc" folder.
	7) You're done.
	8) To kill the bot, kill it's PID.
	
2) Usage
	The Web UI is designed to be open, this means with no spam filtering.
	So, if someone thinks he is coooool gangsta or troll, and the IRC fills up with warnings,
	simply take one of the spam ID's and type "!ban ID". This will cancel this message, but NOT
	the other messages. Cancel these by "!kill ID".
	
	When dealing with regular alerts, the scheme is as following:
	1) User enters report in Web UI
	2) AlertBot highlights all sysop nicks
	3) If after 5 minutes no one has acknowledged (!ack ID), killed (!kill ID) or banned (!ban ID) the message,
		the bot notifies ALL cellphone numbers in the $cellphones array.
	4) If an sysop is awake, then:
		a) the alert is valid => !ack ID it, then, after you fixed it (the ACK shows on the Web UI!), !kill ID it
		b) the alert is invalid => !kill ID it
		c) the alert is spam or trolling or flooding => !ban ID *AND* !kill ID the others!
	
	To prevent flood in case of multiple warnings: SMSes get sent out via a queue. This means that after a SMS
	20 minutes have to pass until another SMS gets sent.
	If you do not know which alerts still are in the queue: Open the Web UI, everything with PENDING is active.

	If you forget the URL to the management interface: !url will tell it.

Marco "harddisk" Schuster
